Update known issues doc and template (#12159)
dotnet/arcade: Documentation/Projects/Build Analysis/KnownIssues.md

> # Known issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Known Issues
```

> The "known issues" are GitHub issues that created with the purpose of reporting and tracking known build or test errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Known issues" are GitHub issues that are created with the purpose of reporting and tracking known build or test errors.
```

> [build analysis](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/main/Documentation/Projects/Build%20Analysis/Introduction.md) will have a list of known issues whenever a build error matches an existing known issues. This will help the developers to know when a build break is not exclusive to their build. This information is going to be listed at the top of the build analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Build Analysis](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/main/Documentation/Projects/Build%20Analysis/Introduction.md) has a list of Known Issues whenever a build or test error matches an existing Known Issue. This will help the developers to know when a build break is not exclusive to their build. This information is listed at the top of Build Analysis.
```

All reported known issues can be found on [known issues project](https://github.com/orgs/dotnet/projects/111).

> ## When and how to report a known issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When and How to Report a Known Issue
```

A known issue should be reported when you find a build or test error that is not caused by your changes and that affects or could affect more builds.

There are two types of known issues:

- **Infrastructure**: An infrastructure issue is an issue that is not exclusive to your repository and that needs to be investigated by the engineering services (@dotnet/dnceng)
- **Repository**: A repository issue is an issue that is happening in a particular repository and that should be investigated by the repository owners.

> There are two ways to report a known issue, one is via build analysis and the other one is manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways to report a Known Issue: one is via Build Analysis and the other one is manually.
```

> ### Reporting known issue manually

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reporting a Known Issue Manually
```

1. Decide if you need to open a [repository issue or infrastructure issue](#decide-infrastructure-or-repository-issue)
1. Open a new issue, choosing the repository in which you are opening the issue based on following rule:
    - Infrastructure issue - arcade
    - Repository issue - In the repo in which the issue is happening

> 1. Add the label `Known Build Error`. (If the label is not available on the repository follow the instructions to [get onboard](#how-to-get-onboard))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the label `Known Build Error`. (If the label is not available on the repository, follow the instructions to [get onboard](#how-to-get-onboard))
```

1. Copy and paste the template

    ````md
    ## Build Information
    Build: <!-- Add link to the build with the reported error. -->
    Leg Name: <!-- Add the name of the impacted leg. -->

    ## Error Message
    <!-- Fill for repository issues. For infrastructure issues the engineering services (@dotnet/dnceng) is going to fill it. -->
    ```json 
    { 
        "ErrorMessage": "",
        "BuildRetry": false,
        "ErrorPattern": "",
        "ExcludeConsoleLog": false
    } 
    ```
    ````

> 1. If you are opening a Repository issue you need to [fill the "Error message/pattern" section](#how-to-fill-out-a-known-issue-error-section). If you are opening an infrastructure issue, this is going to be handled by the engineering services team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If you are opening a Repository Issue you need to [fill out the "Error message/pattern" section](#how-to-fill-out-a-known-issue-error-section). If you are opening an Infrastructure Issue, this is handled by the engineering services team.
```

Reviewer: Do we have a link to instructions for what folks would need to do to open an Infrastructure Issue? Or should we re-word that to the instructions for how to report an Infrastructure Issue to dnceng?

Author: I think that is covered in the previous sections "When and how to report a known issue" or am I missing something?

> 1. If the issue reported can be solved by retrying the build you can consider setting the ["Build Retry" configuration](#build-retry-functionality-in-known-issues) to `true`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If the issue reported can be solved by retrying the build, you should consider setting the ["Build Retry" configuration](#build-retry-functionality-in-known-issues) to `true`
```

> 1. If you want to exclude console logs from known issues matching, you need to set `ExcludeConsoleLog` to `true`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If you want to exclude console logs from Known Issues matching, you need to set `ExcludeConsoleLog` to `true`
```

1. You are done but [what happens after a known issue is created?](#what-happens-after-creating-or-updating-a-known-issue)

> ### Reporting known issue via build analysis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reporting Known Issues Via Build Analysis
```

Author: Cap V for via too?

Reviewer: @garath check my grammar suggestion please :)

Reviewer 2: Style guides generally do not capitalize prepositions in titles.

Reviewer 2: FWIW, the C&AI style guide recommends "sentence case" (uppercase first word, lowercase everything else except proper nouns) in titles and headers. 

[Headings and titles](https://styleguides.azurewebsites.net/Styleguide/Read?id=2696&topicid=28110)

We haven't really set a team policy on this but if you're looking for guidance to follow, there is good corporate docs.

Reviewer: Interesting. I feel like it's easier to find things if I'm looking for Titles rather than sentence case. Regardless, I'll still make suggestions for Titles to keep it consistent.

Author: Any preference @missymessa?

Author: So, are you ok with headers being sentences?

Reviewer: (chatted offline) I'm fine with what, just be consistent

> 1. In build analysis you will see links for the type of issue you want to open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In Build Analysis, you will see links for the type of issue you want to open.
```

![Links to report known issue](./Resources/KnownIssuesLinks.png?raw=true)

> 1. Click on the link of the [type of issue that suits better the situation](#decide-infrastructure-or-repository-issue).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on the link of the [type of issue that suits the situation better](#decide-infrastructure-or-repository-issue).
```

1. A template is going to appear for you and most of this information should be already prefilled.

> 1. If you are opening a Repository issue you need to [fill the "Error message/pattern" section](#how-to-fill-out-a-known-issue-error-section). If you are opening an infrastructure issue, this is going to be handled by the engineering services team.

Reviewer: Since a couple of these instructions are the same as above, I'd reference the ones above to ensure the instructions keep consistent with each other.

Author: Merge both copies into the section "Filling out Known Issues JSON Blob"

1. If the issue reported can be solved by retrying the build you can consider setting the ["Build Retry" configuration](#build-retry-functionality-in-known-issues) to `true`
1. If you want to exclude test console logs from known issues matching, you need to set `ExcludeConsoleLog` to `true`
1. You are done but [what happens after a known issue is created?](#what-happens-after-creating-or-updating-a-known-issue)

> ## How the matching process works between an issue and a build or test error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How the Matching Process Works Between an Issue and a Build or Test Error
```

> The known issues feature finds build and test errors and matches them with known issues using `String.Contains` when there is an "ErrorMessage" string or regex matching if an "ErrorPattern" is provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Known Issues feature finds build and test errors and matches them with open Known Issues using `String.Contains` when there is an "ErrorMessage" property or regex matching if an "ErrorPattern" property is provided.
```

### Filling out Known Issues JSON Blob

1. If you are opening a Repository issue you need to [fill the "Error message/pattern" section](#how-to-fill-out-a-known-issue-error-section). If you are opening an infrastructure issue, this is going to be handled by the engineering services team.
1. If the issue reported can be solved by retrying the build you can consider setting the ["Build Retry" configuration](#build-retry-functionality-in-known-issues) to `true`
1. You should set `ExcludeConsoleLog` to `true` if you want to exclude console logs from known issues matching
1. You are done but [what happens after a known issue is created?](#what-happens-after-creating-or-updating-a-known-issue)

## How the Matching Process Works Between an Issue and a Build or Test Error

The Known Issues feature finds build and test errors and matches them with open Known Issues using `String.Contains` when there is an "ErrorMessage" property or regex matching if an "ErrorPattern" property is provided.

The strategy and limitations differ between both types of errors:

- **Build error**: For build errors the search occurs in two places:
  - AzDO error message

>   - Logs for failing jobs

Reviewer: Do we want to be specific about which logs they'll show up in? (e.g. console vs Helix vs something else)

Author: That's what this section is trying to explain 🤔. Do you have an idea of what information is missing?

Reviewer: "Logs" feels like a generic term, so if we're able to be more specific about which logs we search for build errors, that may be helpful to some folks.

Author: Changed to "Build log of failed jobs"

1. If the issue reported can be solved by retrying the build you can consider setting the ["Build Retry" configuration](#build-retry-functionality-in-known-issues) to `true`
1. You should set `ExcludeConsoleLog` to `true` if you want to exclude console logs from known issues matching
1. You are done but [what happens after a known issue is created?](#what-happens-after-creating-or-updating-a-known-issue)

## How the Matching Process Works Between an Issue and a Build or Test Error

The Known Issues feature finds build and test errors and matches them with open Known Issues using `String.Contains` when there is an "ErrorMessage" property or regex matching if an "ErrorPattern" property is provided.

The strategy and limitations differ between both types of errors:

- **Build error**: For build errors the search occurs in two places:
  - AzDO error message
  - Logs for failing jobs

- **Test errors**: For test errors the analysis only occurs when the build has up to 25 failing tests. This limitation was put in place due to the cost of reviewing the logs for helix jobs. The analysis uses:
  - Error message
  - Stack trace
  - For Helix tests in the console log

> ## How to fill out a known issue error section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to Fill out the Known Issue Error Section
```

1. It shouldn't include any unique identifier of the message e.g., machine, path, file name, etc.

    For example, for the following error:

    ```log
    ##[error].dotnet/sdk/6.0.100-rc.1.21411.28/NuGet.RestoreEx.targets(19,5): error : (NETCORE_ENGINEERING_TELEMETRY=Restore) Failed to retrieve information about 'Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.WindowsServices' from remote source 'https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/dnceng/9ee6d478-d288-47f7-aacc-f6e6d082ae6d/_packaging/c9f8ac11-6bd8-4926-8306-f075241547f7/nuget/v3/flat2/microsoft.extensions.hosting.windowsservices/index.json'.
    ```

    We could choose this part of the message: `(NETCORE_ENGINEERING_TELEMETRY=Restore) Failed to retrieve information`. This is a good option because it targets a particular problem but excludes details of the build, thus making it possible for this same error to match with other builds.

After selecting the message, fill the "ErrorMessage":

```json
{ 
    "ErrorMessage":"(NETCORE_ENGINEERING_TELEMETRY=Restore) Failed to retrieve information" 
}
```

If you need to match an error using a regex, you should use the `ErrorPattern` value.

> In the following example, the regular expression `The command .+ failed` would match errors like `The command 'open explorer' failed`

Reviewer: Do we want to make any notes in here about escaping values? I know this has come up a couple times, so it might come up again

Author: Good point, added a note for it

```json
{
    "ErrorPattern": "The command .+ failed",
}
```

> ## What happens after creating or updating a known issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What Happens after Creating or Updating a Known Issue
```

All builds from the last 24 hours since the issue was opened or updated will be scanned with the error message provided, also the builds that fail after the creation of the issue will be scanned.

> The issues analyzed are all infrastructure issues (known issues in dotnet/arcade) and repository issues (the known issues in the repository of the pull request).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The issues analyzed are all infrastructure issues (Known Issues in dotnet/arcade) and repository issues (Known Issues in the repository of the pull request).
```

> Known issues matches found will be displayed in the build analysis check, the example below shows that the automation found 4 matches with the issue "Tracking issue for CI build timeouts"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Known Issue matches found will be displayed in the Build Analysis check, the example below shows that the automation found 4 matches with the issue "Tracking issue for CI build timeouts"
```

![Known match example](./Resources/KnownIssueMatch.png?raw=true)

> ### Build retry functionality in known issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Build Retry Functionality in Known Issues
```

The build retry setting can be set to 'true' when the build failure on 'ErrorMessage' could be solved by retrying the build.

The following is a good example of the use of "BuilRetry" as the only way to fix this error is by retrying the build.

```json
{ 
    "ErrorMessage":"The agent did not connect within the alloted time",
    "BuildRetry": true
} 
```

The build retry functionality retries a build that, in its first attempt, had a failure that matches the known issue 'ErrorMessage' or 'ErrorPattern' and has the 'BuildRetry' set to true.

In the example stated above if a build fails with the error "The agent did not connect within the alloted time" on its first attempt this is going to be retried.

Please note that this has some limitations, meaning if the failure occurred on an attempt different from the first, the build will not be retried.

The limitation has been placed by design because of two reasons:

1. If a build has been retried on more occasions the underlying reason could be something different.
1. Many builds are analyzed and retrying them on multiple occasions can become expensive and problematic.

> ## How to get onboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to Get Onboard
```

1. For infrastructure issues there are not additional steps because this are part of dotnet/arcade.
1. For the repository issues it's necessary to [Create a label](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-server@3.1/issues/using-labels-and-milestones-to-track-work/managing-labels#creating-a-label) on the repository in which you need to open the Repository issue. <br>
The name of the label needs to be `Known Build Error`

## Decide Infrastructure or Repository issue

- **Infrastructure**:
  - The issue is not exclusive to a repository
  - Needs to be investigated by the engineering services (@dotnet/dnceng)
  - It hasn't been reported on [arcade](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Known+Build+Error%22)
- **Repository**:
  - The issue is happening in a particular repository
  - The error needs to be investigated by the repository owners.
  - The problem hasn't been reported in the `REPOSITORY`, use the following query to verify that:

    ```text
    https://github.com/dotnet/<REPOSITORY>/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Known+Build+Error%22
    ```

> ## Where to find the known issue on the build analysis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Where to Find Known Issues on Build Analysis
```

The known issues are listed at the top of the build analysis.

E.g.
![Known issues list](./Resources/KnownIssuesListed.png?raw=true)

<!-- Begin Generated Content: Doc Feedback -->
<sub>Was this helpful? [![Yes](https://helix.dot.net/f/ip/5?p=Documentation%5CProjects%5CBuild%20Analysis%5CKnownIssues.md)](https://helix.dot.net/f/p/5?p=Documentation%5CProjects%5CBuild%20Analysis%5CKnownIssues.md) [![No](https://helix.dot.net/f/in)](https://helix.dot.net/f/n/5?p=Documentation%5CProjects%5CBuild%20Analysis%5CKnownIssues.md)</sub>
<!-- End Generated Content-->

## Telemetry

> Build analysis sends known issues telemetry to `engineeringdata` Kusto DB. The telemetry includes data about all the matches between build breaks and known issues the automation was able to find.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build Analysis sends Known Issue telemetry to the `engineeringdata` Kusto DB. The telemetry includes data about all the matches between build breaks and Known Issues the automation was able to find.
```

Two tables are used to store this data, `KnownIssues` for build related matches and `TestKnownIssues` for test related matches. You can use the following columns, in both tables, to build queries:

- Build Id
- Build repository
- Known issue Id
- Known issue repository
- Pull request that triggered the build (if available)

> The query below returns all builds affected by known issue 76454 in the runtime repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query below returns all builds affected by Known Issue 76454 in the runtime repo
```

Reviewer: Maybe we want to link to the issue itself here?

Author: Added a link for it
